this is a little jaco 38 watt 40 liter
per minute little air pump it's coming
down to a why there's two hoses on it
one hose it's coming over here into my
fish tank that is bubbling the air very
nice - a nice little of air - the other
green hose though it's not doing work in
that it is pumping the water from this
fish tank is down here at the bottom
it's coming out of the fish tank goes
over here to a tee what's important to
know is that three inch piece of pipe
goes two feet down in the ground then it
comes up to here and we're pumping the
water up into here when the water comes
up to here tremendous amount of aeration
now my assistant I'll put in the tea bag
maker because normally does this pump
the water up to overflow into the center
bed but watch as he puts a compost tea
maker in there
the agitation that he gets on that with
the air bubbling up through the tea bag
how fast it goes Brown now that's gonna
fill up and when he gets all the way up
to the top here the air is going to
bring it up to the top of this pipe here
which is a pipe sight and the water is
going to come across come down and it's
going to come out here very similar to a
bell siphon but it doesn't need a
container the pipe on the back side
they're going up and over on the back
side it goes into a pipe they'll detect
where the level of water is and they'll
trip it off when it's time now you see
we're getting a siphon now my rich warm
tea water extract is heading out into
the sender bed which would normally be
planted so this one now it's going to go
down to the bottom when it gets to the
bottom the air brake pipe this pipe here
is in this bite which comes down to here
so you take a look here you can see how
it is all around you'd be a little 360
tour here of it
and he comes all the way down and that
will just super super clean up the the
tea that compost tea out of their come
down we'll get an airbrake she'll stop
and then chill just start filling all
the way back up again and it will wash
all that compost tea out of that bag
into the water into a digestible
solution so this is our garbage to
aquaponics
by taking garbage feeding it to the
worms and then we have the worm casting
goes here by having a simple little bag
like this that bubbling over the water
there we'll just work fantastic we're
getting the nutrition into your
aquaponic system so out of the one
little air pump you not only get the
pumping I'd like to point out this fish
tank is a 24 inch deep tank there's 20
inches of water at it but following the
dr. Timmons recommendation to dig a hole
down a post hole digger we went two feet
in the ground so the two inch pipe
connect to the three inch pipe two feet
down on the ground and then we air pump
it up for those you're not familiar with
our air pumps where the air comes in
here in the green hose that goes into a
two-inch pipe and I can lift this up
that's a completely separate pipe there
it is just sitting inside the 3-inch
pipe this capped at the bottom so this
air pump thinks it has four feet of
water to work with it pumps up to here I
get my rich nutritious tea she will fill
up in this jar to the trip point here
come down do the siphon and run until
this air break stops it so this just
goes up and down 24 hours a day
I put worm tea in there when I think I
needed or my plants need it to aid to
their nutrition but I thought you guys
might like to see that